# 2019-12-02

How to better stand ups
======

https://andyjohns.co/why-standups-are-useless-and-how-to-run-great-product-team-meetings
------

Typical standups:

- What did I work on yesterday?
- What am I working today?
- What issues are blocking me?

Standups don’t carve out time for decision-making, which is the ultimate blocker. Rather, standups are designed to simply make the blocker known, yet not resolve the blocker. Resolution matters more than awareness.

Better version:

- Action items: who is handling what key action item and by what date?
- What decisions need to be made?

To prepare for running effective product team meetings (i.e. decision-making meetings), I would go to each function lead on the product team (design, engineering, marketing, etc.) and ask them what decisions they needed made. 


# Advice to younger self

## https://blog.alexmaccaw.com/advice-to-my-younger-self

### Average of your five friends

### Focus on your strengths

Well, I define a talent as an innate ability, and a strength as something that gives you energy.

One sign that something gives you energy is that you stay up all night doing it.

### Ask for help

### Lean into your fear

When you feel fear it’s a sign that you should lean in.

### Happiness conditional on external factors

Every feeling, every emotion, they’re all generated internally. If you try to satisfy them externally then you will fail.


### Embrace your body 

### Be less tied to being right


# 5 things I learned in 20 years of programming

## https://daedtech.com/5-things-ive-learned-in-20-years-of-programming/

- Duplication of Knowledge is the Worst

- Code is a liability

- Senior developers: Trust but verify

- TDD Is Legit, and It’s a Game-Changer

- Evidence is King


# Genius

## http://paulgraham.com/genius.html

Ingredients to great work:
- talent
- determination
- an obsessive interest in a particular topic (matter of discussed)

> to have a disinterested obsession with something that matters.

Obessesion leads to:
- determination
- prepared -> luck

Which obsession better to look into?

- more promising if you're creating something instead of consuming
- more promising if it's difficult, especially if it's more difficult for other people than it is for you

Greate risk comes with great returns

- Waste a lot of time comes with great work?

Hard to know which bets to take

Have a lot of interests?

Bus ticket theory explains:
- ability is evenly distributed, but not interest
- after having children, interest is diverged -> harder to do great work
- ways to do great work: ability and dilligence? Or interest?

>  Hamming's famous double-barrelled question: what are the most important problems in your field, and why aren't you working on one of them?








