
# 2019-12-07

## Eight Habits of Expert Software Designers: An Illustrated Guide

### https://thereader.mitpress.mit.edu/habits-of-expert-software-designers/

1) Experts involve the user

2) Experts design elegant abstractions

3) Experts focus on the essence

4) Experts simulate continually

5) Experts look around

6) Experts reshape the problem space

7) Experts see error as opportunity

8) Experts think about what they are not designing

## The real difference between CI and CD

### https://fire.ci/blog/the-difference-between-ci-and-cd/


> Continuous Integration is all about preventing the main branch of being broken so your team is not stuck. That’s it. It is not about having all your tests green all the time and the main branch deployable to production at every commit.

The checks shall ensure the bare minimum:

- The app should build and start
- Most critical features should be functional at all times (user signup/login journey and key business features)
- Common layers of the application that all the developers rely on, should be stable. This means unit tests on those parts.

> Continuous Integration is not about tools. It is about working in small chunks and integrating your new code to the main branch and pulling frequently.

> Continuous Delivery is about being able to deploy any version of your code at all times. 

> Run all the tests you can to ensure that once deployed the code will actually work. Run unit tests, integration tests, end to end tests and even performance tests if you can automate that.

This way you can filter which versions of your main branch are actually production ready and which are not. The ideal test suite:

- Ensures that the application key functionalities work. Ideally all functionalities
- Ensures that no performance deal breaker has been introduced so when your new version hits your many users it has a chance to last
- Dry run any database updates your code needs to avoid surprises

A good CI build:

- Ensures no code that breaks basic stuff and prevents other team members to work is introduced to the main branch
- Is fast enough to provide feedback to developers within minutes to prevent context switching between tasks


A good CD build:

- Ensures that as many features as possible are working properly
- The faster the better, but it is not a matter of speed. A 30-60 minutes build is OK
