###Security basics

## Message Authentication

# RSA-2048 (Rivest - Shamir - Adleman)
- Public private key encryption scheme (asymetric)

The RSA algorithm involves four steps:
- key generation
- key distribution
- encrytion
- decryption

based on modular congruence

Key generation:
- Choose two distinct prime numbers p and q
- Compute n = pq. n is used as the modulus for both the public and private keys. Its length is the key length. n is released as part of the public key
- Compute lambda(n), where lambda is Carmicheal's tolient function. Since n = pq, lambda(n) = lcm(lambda(p), lambda(q)) 
...

## Message Encryption/Decryption

# DES - Data Encryption Standard

- Only has a 56-bit key
- deprecated

# AES - Advanced Encryption Standard

- a specific subset of the Rijndael block cipher. With a fixed block-size of 128-bits and key sizes of 128, 192 and 256-bits.
- every kind of encryption has its trade offs. Rijndael block cipher was chosen for its all-around abilities.

How does it works?
- First the data is divided into blocks. The block size of AES is 128-bits, so it separates the data into a four-by-four column of sixteen bytes
- Key expansion involves taking the initial key and using it to come up with a series of other keys for each round of the encryption process. These new 128-bits round keys are derived with Rijndael's key schedule, which is essentially a simple and fast way to produce new key ciphers.
- Add round key. Because it is the first round, our initial key is added into the block of our message. This is done with an XOR cipher, which is an additive encryption algorithm.
- Substitute bytes, shift rows, mix columns...
- extra 4 rounds make AES-256 40% less efficient

## Message verification - Integrity

# SHA-256
