### Computer boot up basic

What happen when you turn on a computer?

## 1. The power supply gives electricity to motherboard, cpu

## 2. The CPU is started and run a special program in the chipset called BIOS/UEFI

## 3. The settings for BIOS is stored on motherboard

## 4. The BIOS looks for a bootloader (GRUB) to boot your operating system from (HDD, SSD, ...). The bootloader is loaded into memory and started, its job is to start the real operting system.

## 5. The bootloader does this by looking for a kernel, loading it to memory and starting it.

## 6. The kernel tests hardware by sending them commands to I/O ports

## 7. After the run level 1, the kernel hands control to a special process called init and spawns several housekeeping processes. (upstart)

## 8. The init first checks if the disks are okay

## 9. Init's next step is to start several daemons

## 10. The next step is to prepare for users. Init starts getty to watch your screen and keyboard

## 11. Starts up various daemons that support networking and other services. The most important is X server. It is a daemon that manages your display, keyboard and mouse. Its main job is to prduce the color pixel graphics you normally see on your screen. When the X server comes up, during the last part of your machine's boot process, it effectively takes over the hardware from wahever virtual console was previously in control. That's when you'll see a graphical login screen, prduced for you by a program called a disploay manager.
